Work Generation page (#248)
nanocurrency/nano-docs: docs/integration-guides/work-generation.md

### Choosing a machine

Using a separate machine to manage work generation is recommended where possible. The machine running the node should have a minimum of dedicated resources to keep in sync with the network and any potential interruption due to work generation activities should be avoided.

### Application for work calculation

Although the node can be configured to generate work directly, there are plans to separate work generation from the node into its own application and process. To help prepare for this future architecturs the preferred setup today is to use the [Nano Work Server](https://github.com/nanocurrency/nano-work-server) for work generation.

### Number of work peers

To provide a more robust and redundant work generation setup, multiple [work peers](/running-a-node/configuration/#nodework_peers) can be used. Any node configured with multiple peers will make requests serially from the list of work peers until a successful response is received.

> !!! tip "Disable local CPU work generation"

Reviewer: It was related to the work_peers config: https://docs.nano.org/running-a-node/configuration/#nodework_peers . `"::ffff:127.0.0.1:7076"` is the local node

> !!! tip "Disable local CPU work generation"

Author: Updated

	Since using the same CPU resources the node relies on for work generation can cause performance issues, local CPU work generation should be turned off by setting [`node.work_threads`](/running-a-node/configuration/#nodework_threads) = `0` when using work peers.

## Recommended configurations

Below are common, recommended configurations for planning work generation needs. Based on the considerations outlined above, the following general rules apply when planning resources:

- GPU-based work generation is recommended wherever reasonable
- Running the [Nano Work Server](https://github.com/nanocurrency/nano-work-server) is preferred, regardless of machine or CPU/GPU decisions
- CPU-based work generation on the same machine as the node is running is not recommended

### Heavy RPC, regular work generation

Services with heavy RPC calls and work generation can benefit from ensuring dedicated resources exist for each process separately. To maximize performance a separate machine running the [Nano Work Server](https://github.com/nanocurrency/nano-work-server) with a GPU attached is recommended:

> 1. Setup a machine separate from the node with GPU attached

Reviewer: Yes, and being aware of anything that could delay the connection (things like Cloudflare perhaps, although that is not supported currently)

> 1. Setup a machine separate from the node with GPU attached

Author: Added callout in the "Choosing a machine" section further up

	A less preferred alternative to setting up, running and monitoring the Nano Work Server is to use the node itself to generate work. This should only be done with an attached GPU by setting up and enabling OpenCL with [`opencl.enable`](/running-a-node/configuration/#openclenable) = `true` and adusting `opencl.device`, `opencl.platform` and `opencl.threads` to match your setup.

### Representatives

Supporting the network by running a representative is recommended for many services, however it is not recommended that voting nodes are used for heavy RPC or work generation activities. Wherever possible, integration should utilize separate machines for their integration nodes and consensus-producing, voting nodes.

---

## Benchmarks

### Benchmark commands

To benchmark a specific device you want to know the performance for, the node CLI commands or a separate script for the Nano Work Server can be used.

**Using the Nano node**

1. Install an configure the Nano node on the machine
1. Run a CLI command:
	* CPU: `nano_node --debug_profile_generate`
	* GPU: `nano_node --debug_opencl --platform=0 --device=0` (updating `platform` and `device` as necessary)

> This will trigger continual work generation, so let it run until a sufficient sample size of times are generated (at least 100 instances). Compute the average of these times which is the number of microseconds to generate work.

Reviewer: Agreed

**Block Height 1**

The first block on an account-chain doesn't have a previous (head) block, so the account public key is used:

$$
blake2b(\text{nonce} || \text{public_key}) \ge \text{threshold}
$$

**Block Height 2 and up**

Once an account has an existing block the previous block hash is used for all blocks going forward:

$$
blake2b(\text{nonce} || \text{prev_block_hash}) \ge \text{threshold}
$$

### Difficulty thresholds

The mainnet's base difficulty threshold currently `0xffffffc000000000` for all blocks. To be valid the work field must contain a nonce above this value, but the nodes also prioritize the order in which they process transactions based on how far above this threshold the work value is. Due to the prioritization it may be desirable to generate work further above the threshold to guarantee faster processing by network. To assist integrations with managing these work difficulty levels, nodes monitor the trend of difficulty seen on blocks being processed and make that available via the [`active_difficulty`](/commands/rpc-protocol/#active_difficulty) RPC.

**Development node wallet behavior**

> The developer wallet included with the node is configured to pre-cache work as the base threshold and monitor any blocks it publishes to the network for confirmation. If they are not confirmed within 5 seconds, the difficulty on that block will be compared against the active difficulty seen on the network. If the block has a lower work value than the network then new work generation is requested at the higher level.

Reviewer: We can also mention there is a config for the maximum multiplier (again, we'll have to decide which difficulty that will be based off of)

> The developer wallet included with the node is configured to pre-cache work as the base threshold and monitor any blocks it publishes to the network for confirmation. If they are not confirmed within 5 seconds, the difficulty on that block will be compared against the active difficulty seen on the network. If the block has a lower work value than the network then new work generation is requested at the higher level.

Reviewer: We do use it outside of local work generation, any requests to peers should never be above that maximum multiplier (more concretely, the equivalent difficulty). This is to prevent issues with the node wallet trying to generate work at higher difficulty but this never being completed.

> The developer wallet included with the node is configured to pre-cache work as the base threshold and monitor any blocks it publishes to the network for confirmation. If they are not confirmed within 5 seconds, the difficulty on that block will be compared against the active difficulty seen on the network. If the block has a lower work value than the network then new work generation is requested at the higher level.

Author: Ok, I think I updated this right and included as a notable config callout linked in the update.

> The developer wallet included with the node is configured to pre-cache work as the base threshold and monitor any blocks it publishes to the network for confirmation. If they are not confirmed within 5 seconds, the difficulty on that block will be compared against the active difficulty seen on the network. If the block has a lower work value than the network then new work generation is requested at the higher level.

Reviewer: Also of note for external integrations (not only the dev wallet) since the RPC will reject requests for difficulty levels above this maximum.

> The developer wallet included with the node is configured to pre-cache work as the base threshold and monitor any blocks it publishes to the network for confirmation. If they are not confirmed within 5 seconds, the difficulty on that block will be compared against the active difficulty seen on the network. If the block has a lower work value than the network then new work generation is requested at the higher level.

Author: Moved to a tip callout box below external integrations

**Difficulty management for external integrations**

For services aiming to ensure the highest priority on their transactions, the confirmation of published blocks should be monitored by their integration and work levels compared against active difficulty in a similar fashion to the development wallet mentioned above. If work is left at base difficulty there could be delays in the transactions being processed during heavy network usage times.

!!! warning "Upcoming threshold changes and variations by block type"
	Plans are underway to change the thresholds based on the type of block with the release of V21 and subsequent distribution of v2 epoch blocks to enable the feature. See the [Development Update: V21 PoW Difficulty Increases article](https://medium.com/nanocurrency/development-update-v21-pow-difficulty-increases-362b5d052c8e) for full details.

> ### Pre-caching

Reviewer: Should we note this is handled automatically by the dev wallet?

The developer wallet included with the node is configured to pre-cache work at the base threshold and monitor any blocks it publishes to the network for confirmation. If they are not confirmed within 5 seconds, the difficulty on that block will be compared against the active difficulty seen on the network. If the block has a lower work value than the network, then new work generation is requested at the higher level.

**Difficulty management for external integrations**

For services aiming to ensure the highest priority on their transactions, the confirmation of published blocks should be monitored by their integration and work levels compared against active difficulty in a similar fashion to the development wallet mentioned above. If work is left at base difficulty there could be delays in the transactions being processed during heavy network usage times.

!!! tip "Configure max work generate multiplier"

>     Due to the possibility of network work levels increasing beyond the capabilities of certain work generation setups, the config option [`node.max_work_generate_multiplier`](/running-a-node/configuration/#nodework_threads) can be used to limit how high a work value will be requested at. All setups, whether using the developer wallet or an external integration, should implement an appropriate limit which defaults to 64x in V20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Due to the possibility of network work levels increasing beyond the capabilities of certain work generation setups, the config option [`node.max_work_generate_multiplier`](/running-a-node/configuration/#nodemax_work_generate_multiplier) can be used to limit how high a work value will be requested at. All setups, whether using the developer wallet or an external integration, should implement an appropriate limit which defaults to 64x in V20.
```

Reviewer: Other than this looks good to me 👍
